Tetris, many of you have
probably played this game.
I've certainly played it.
I've made Tetris games for fun before.
It's harder to implement
than you might think.
But I got to thinking,
as most people do that play games,
what if I wrote a bot to play this?
What if I wrote a Tetris bot that just sat
there so I could go take a snack break and
come back and
the game would still be going or whatever.
And that's a similar kind of question.
How would you model the current
state of a Tetris board the next
piece that's coming up, and
where best to put that piece?
There are many places to put that piece.
Not all of them are gonna
produce the same output.
So how would you model solving a Tetris or
even just playing a Tetris game in
some sort of remotely optimal way?
What would be the things
that would matter?
Here's some questions that
would come to my mind.
What am I optimizing for?
[LAUGH] Am I optimizing for longest
gameplay like prolonging the inevitable?
Am I optimizing for as many lines
cleared or am I optimizing for
clearing four lines so
I get more of the bonus points?
What are the things that my gameplay needs
to optimize for I'd play it differently?
Now truth be told complex problems
like this are rarely solved directly
programmatically these days.
Most of these are solved
through machine learning.
You effectively reverse engineer
the perfect solution by playing a bunch of
really bad games and selecting the best of
the bad games and then keep doing that and
keep doing that.
And then you end up with
a style of play that
is almost completely unlike
what any human would do.
But it ends up being the best gameplay.
That's how a lot of those
kinds of tools work now.
But if you were to write a direct
non-machine learning algorithm to this,
not reverse engineering it.
You would translate some of the things
that you think of as a player,
some of the things that you optimize for,
you would translate those into steps.
And you'd say I think if I see one
left side of it really, really tall,
I'd try to put all of the pieces
on the right hand side.
That might be one of your
informal game playing rules.
A machine learning algorithm might
literally come up with the exact opposite
rule and still do better than us.
But the point is, if you were writing
your own algorithm to represent your
gameplay in Tetris,
what are the steps you'd take?
What questions would you ask?
What diagrams would you draw?
All fundamental steps to
being a better algorithmist.
Very similar question during the pandemic,
as many people did,
my wife and I did a lot of puzzles.
And we did some that were fairly
straightforward, it took us a day or two.
We had one puzzle that a relative
sent us that was really evil.
First of all,
it was a 1500 piece puzzle, so
really tiny pieces and
it was tons of color repetition.
So it was gonna be a nightmare.
And we poured it out, and
I like looked at it and
then about ten minutes in I was like,
I refuse to do this puzzle.
[LAUGH] First of all, I don't need to
waste weeks of my life on this puzzle.
I was looking for
something for a few hours,
not something that I'm gonna worry
about for weeks and weeks and weeks.
But secondly, the pieces the way they fit,
the way they cut that puzzle.
And I think this is probably just true,
the more pieces that you have,
the more likely it is that you have pieces
that are almost a perfect fit but aren't.
And I had a few of those,
so I had no color clue.
And then I was trying to pair the pieces
by their shape, and it was ever so
slightly, and I'm talking about half
a millimeter not quite perfectly correct.
And then you're wondering, is it wrong?
Or is this just the imperfection in
the cutting of the cardboard piece?
I was, no, I'm not gonna spend
my life mad at this puzzle, so
we just gave up on that one.
But I got to thinking, what if I could
just take a picture of this pile
of my puzzle pieces and tell the computer,
at least give me the edge pieces.
Give me a head start.
[LAUGH] Not even solving the whole puzzle,
how would you just solve
the edges of a puzzle?
How would you write that algorithm?
There's ways to do it.
There's image recognition and
all kinds of stuff like that.
But if you were gonna write code to
do that, what steps would you take?
What are the base conditions
that you would wanna look at?
We know every rectangular puzzle
has four corner pieces, so
let's identify those first.
That's what I do as a human,
I identify the corner pieces and
then the straight edge pieces.
So that's probably the steps
that you'd start writing code.
Use your image recognition
to find all of those and
start kind of shuffling them together.
Then you'd probably sort
by average color or
something like that just to
kind of get them approximately.
And then you'd probably just
start trying permutations
of shapes fitting together until
you found the right pieces to fit.
All right,
I've put this up here as a representation.
I know we already saw a map, but
there's a classic computer science
problem, which is given a map.
And in the case of the map that
we're gonna be talking about,
it's just a two-dimensional
array of zeros and ones.
That represent islands, okay?
So here are some islands.
Given this two dimensional
grid of zeros and
ones, not a complex map like we see here.
How would you determine the size
of the largest island, which is
the size of the largest contiguous group
of ones in that two-dimensional array?
How would you go through and
find that the largest island is
six versus four or whatever?
This is a classic computer science problem
and there's classic known solutions to it.
Lots of different applications to this
besides geographic maps by the way.
You could think about this in image
editing programs like filling of paint,
find the largest, you could think
about it in an image representation.
Like if you were doing a scaling or
thumbnailing of a picture, and
you might take a grid of some pixels and
try to find the average colors within it.
So you need to find the largest section
of contiguous color within a grouping of
pixels.
Lots of different ways that this
kind of algorithm can show up in
the programming that we do
besides geographic maps.
What are the steps that you might take
to finding the largest island?
For this particular problem,
I actually have a link here to
a just where I implemented
it two different ways.
I'm not claiming that this is good code.
This is just my attempt.
I solved it first with
the recursive approach,
the depth first, as we call it,
recursive approach.
And then I went back and resolved it
again, and that's what this code here is,
is a snapshot of
the breadth-first approach.
And it's very small code,
but I just want you to,
if you can see there on line 9,
you see some for loops.
I'm not doing any recursion at all.
This is a couple of nested loops and
a queue.
I'm doing a breadth-first search through
the tree or graph of information.
You can treat this two-dimensional array
of pixels as if it's kind of a graph, and
I'm doing a breadth-first
traversal through that.
Once I find an island, basically spreading
out until I found all the edges of
the island and keeping track of how
many units I found in that island.
And then I've got a set in there to make
sure that I don't revisit that island from
some other direction as I keep
going looking for other islands.
So that's my approach.
Maybe it's a good one.
Maybe it's a terrible approach.
I don't know, there's probably
much more efficient algorithms.
If this is your first foray
into algorithmic programming,
I'm gonna go out on a limb and suggest
that some of you might feel a little bit
intimidated by looking at code like that.
And the reason I wanted to show you
this code is that you will build up code
like that in this workshop.
And it won't feel intimidating
when you build it piece by piece.
The intimidation comes when you look
at the final solution and you say,
I wouldn't even know where to start.
Part of the purpose of this workshop is
helping you learn where to start, okay?
But you're gonna end
up getting to more and
more complex solutions
piece by piece by piece.